What is more important?
Finishing an assignment
or how we go about
carrying out the assignment?
Well, our text for today
uses the Day of Atonement
to illustrate that the way
Jesus went about living his life
was actually even more important
than that one act of salvation.
Now, why?
Well, that’s because
the way Jesus lived his life
—carried out his ministry—
addressed Satan’s challenge.
And Jesus proved
that doing things Jehovah’s way
is the right way to live.
Thus, Jesus, by his life,
upheld Jehovah’s sovereignty,
and that made his sacrifice
acceptable to Jehovah.
So, what are some ways
in which Jesus upheld,
or vindicated,
Jehovah’s sovereignty?
And how can we imitate Jesus
in our assignments?
Well, there are many things
we could talk about today,
but let’s just consider three ways.
One is that Jesus
worked on Jehovah’s initiatives,
not his own.
Now, as we know,
Jesus could calm storms,
he could heal people,
and he could feed people.
And so Jesus could have decided,
‘Well, yes, I’m going to preach,
‘but I’m also going to focus my energies
on helping people
—setting up relief activities,
healing the sick, helping the poor.’
Or when the people
wanted to make Jesus king,
he could have decided,
‘Well, let me let them make me king,
and then I can address
some of the problems of the day.’
Jesus loved children,
and people loved the way Jesus taught.
So Jesus could have thought,
‘Well, I’m going to preach,
‘but I’m going to focus my energy
on setting up schools
so that I can teach young people
to learn about Jehovah.’
See, Jesus could have done
all of those things.
But what did he do?
Well, let’s look at Luke chapter 4
and verse 43 and notice
what it quotes him saying
in response to the crowds
wanting him to stay and help them.
Luke 4:43: “But he said to them:
“‘I must also declare the good news
of the Kingdom of God to other cities,
because for this I was sent.’”
Jesus never lost sight of why he was there,
what his assignment was.
He stayed focused,
and he focused his energies
on what Jehovah wanted done.
Well, how can we imitate Jesus
in our assignments?
Well, as we know, there are many things
that we could get involved in
as an organization (good things)
—expanding our relief activities,
helping the poor, teaching,
setting up schools to teach other people,
or many other initiatives.
And there’s nothing wrong with us
presenting a new idea
or initiative to our oversight.
But what do we do once a decision is made?
Well, we follow the direction.
We throw ourselves into the initiatives
given to us from our oversight.
See, we subject ourselves
to what Jehovah wants his organization to do
and how he wants it done.
It’s not about what we think
the organization should be doing.
It’s about what Jehovah wants done.
Let’s look at another example.
Jesus worked
within the organizational structures
that Jehovah had in place
or allowed to be in place.
Now, Jesus saw the hypocrisy, the corruption,
the inefficiencies of the Jewish arrangements
that were there in place at the time.
Other arrangements, though not bad,
had served their purpose
or were only temporary
—were soon to end.
What would Jesus do?
Well, remember the account
as recorded at Matthew 8:4,
when he healed the man with leprosy.
What did he tell the man to do?
He said: “Go, show yourself to the priest.”
Now, Jesus knew the man was clean,
but yet he told him
to follow the arrangement.
At Galatians 4:4, it says
that Jesus “was under law.”
We know that he observed the Sabbath.
Now, we know that Jehovah
established the Sabbath
as a temporary arrangement
to teach people to take time
to meditate on spiritual things.
Well, Jesus understood the principle
behind the Sabbath.
He meditated on spiritual things every day,
and he knew it was soon going to end.
And yet he respected
and followed the arrangement.
It’s interesting
that regarding the Pharisees,
it records him saying at Matthew 23:3:
“All . . . they tell you, do and observe.”
He said to listen to the Pharisees,
even though
they weren’t doing the right thing.
Why?
Because that was the arrangement.
See, Jesus worked within the arrangements
that Jehovah had in place
or had not yet seen fit to change.
So how can we imitate Jesus
in our assignments?
Well, even within the organization,
we may see functions,
departments, processes
that personally
we may perceive as inefficient
or complicated or out-of-date.
Well, Jehovah obviously
has allowed these structures to be in place
or has not yet seen fit to change them.
So do we see how supporting them,
working with them,
not working around these arrangements
is another way of us supporting
Jehovah’s right to rule his way?
So let’s look at another example, the third.
Jesus understood the limits of his authority.
At Luke, excuse me,
Matthew 11:27,
Jesus said: “All things have been
handed over to me by my Father.”
“All things”
—and yet Jesus understood
that his authority had boundaries.
Remember the account in Luke chapter 12,
where the man in the crowd said to Jesus:
“Teacher, tell my brother
to divide [his] inheritance with me.”
What did Jesus do?
‘OK, well, let’s talk about that.’
No.
He said: “Man, who appointed me judge
or arbitrator between you two?”
‘Wait a minute.
I thought you had all authority.’
Or when the Phoenician woman came to Jesus
and asked him to heal her daughter.
What did Jesus say?
He said: “I was not sent to anyone
except to the lost sheep
of the house of Israel.”
Now, even though Jesus did help her,
we see his words illustrate
that he understood
that his authority had limits.
In fact, notice what he says
as recorded at John 5:19.
John 5:19:
“Therefore, in response Jesus said to them:
“‘Most truly I say to you,
“‘the Son cannot do a single thing
of his own initiative,
“‘but only what he sees the Father doing.
“‘For whatever things that One does,
these things the Son
does also in like manner.’”
“The Son cannot do a single thing,”
but he has all authority.
So how can we imitate Jesus
in our assignments?
Well, I know for me, the Governing Body
provides a beautiful example of that.
Periodically, we will get a call
in our department
from a Governing Body member
who maybe has observed something
regarding one of our branch facilities
or has a suggestion or a concern.
And invariably, at the end of the call,
the brother will say:
“Now, remember,
this is just my opinion and observation.
“Please do not take this as direction.
“The members of the Publishing Committee
may have a different perspective.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
Even the Governing Body members
understand
that their authority has boundaries.
What a good example for us to follow!
As we know in the secular world,
the more responsibility one has,
the more authority they have.
But isn’t it true
that it’s exactly the opposite
within Jehovah’s organization?
The more responsibility we have,
the more checks and balances there are
that limit our authority.
And to me, that is a beautiful arrangement
that Jehovah has set in place,
and that ensures that it is impossible
for one man to rise up
and take control of the earthly part
of Jehovah’s organization.
It’s not possible.
It is clear that Jehovah is taking the lead
through his Son, Jesus.
And, see, the point is that
when we understand
our place in the arrangement,
we uphold Jehovah’s authority
and his right to rule his way.
Now, we contrast all of that with Satan
who promotes independence
and doing his own thing.
He sets up rival and competing
organizational arrangements
and has no idea
of the limits of his authority.
So, really, it drives home the point
at Luke 9:23.
Let’s read that together.
Luke 9:23:
“Then he went on to say to all:
“‘If anyone wants to come after me,
“‘let him disown himself
“‘and pick up his torture stake day after day
and keep following me.’”
See, when we choose to follow Christ,
when we chose to follow Jesus, we said,
“We are going to put our will
in the background,
and we’re going to submit to Jehovah’s will.”
So in summary, Jesus’ example shows us
that it’s not just
finishing an assignment that’s important
but also how we go about
doing that assignment.
So the question for today is,
Does the way
I am accomplishing my assignments
demonstrate that I support
Jehovah’s sovereignty?
So as we contemplate
Jesus’ death and ransom,
may we also think about his example,
even in just these three ways
we’ve discussed.
And may we be resolved to imitate Jesus
by (1) working on the things
Jehovah wants done,
(2) using the arrangements
that he has put in place,
and (3) working within the limits
of our own authority.
And in this way,
we too will demonstrate that we believe
that doing things Jehovah’s way
is the right way to live.